In this demonstration we'll have a look at User Account
Control or UAC security and adjusting it.
I'm going to open up Start, and open up old fashioned control panel,
and we'll open up Windows Defender Firewall.
Remember that an action can either require administrative elevation or not.
Note the shield here.
Use recommended settings.
When I click that,
depending upon whether it's a Microsoft application
or a third-party application,
you're either prompted for confirmation or it just goes through.
Let me open up the Start menu and find an application,
a third-party application.
How about the FileZilla FTP Client.
The lack of a shield means that this will work just
fine under standard user permissions, but if you need to manually elevate,
if you know that it's going to require administrative level access,
you can right-click and either choose Run as administrator
directly from the shortcut menu or if you're in the start
menu you'll have to go to More, Run as administrator,
and here we're seeing the User Account Control secure desktop environment,
and we're being prompted to confirm that,
yes, this is what we want to do.
I want you to get into the habit of reading this.
Do you want to allow this app to make changes to your device?
That's potential changes.
I also want you to notice and verify the name of the program.
First of all, see if the code has been signed,
and second of all that it's a verified publisher.
This is a really good software practice.
If a piece of software has not been digitally signed,
then there's really no easy way to tell whether it's been modified.
Of course, the Windows Defender SmartScreen is one way to help in that,
but digitally signed software is certainly the way to go.
If we click No it's not going to start the program, and if we click Yes it will.
Now UAC settings are managed a couple different places.
If we just do a search for UAC in Cortana or Start there's
Change User Account Control settings.
It's a simple user interface.
Notice that it slides down from Never notify,
that is not recommended, you're, in effect,
disabling UAC there, up to Always notify.
The default is right about here.
Notify me only when apps try to make changes to my computer.
Don't notify me when I make changes to Windows settings.
Well,
I recommend keeping it up to Always notify because it's going to keep
you more engaged in what's happening on your system.
Notice that to change the setting itself requires UAC administrative elevation.
The other place to go is Group Policy.
In Local Group Policy you can open that from a command
line or the Run box by typing gpedit.
msc or in a domain environment you can open the Group Policy Management Console,
and in Group Policy you go under Computer Configuration,
Windows Settings, Security Settings, Security Options,
and there's a whole lot of options here that start with User Account Control,
and it looks like one's actually disabled,
and then we have a couple other that are,
actually a few are disabled.
Hmm, well let's check out this first one.
User Account Control: Allow UIAccess applications to prompt for
elevation without using the secure desktop.
I'm not sure why that's disabled.
The default mode, though, is what's called Admin Approval Mode,
where administrators, that is,
members of the local administrators group on your Windows 10 box,
are prompted to say yes or no,
but they're not required to put in their credentials.
This particular policy allows you to force the prompt of
credentials or elevate without prompting.
So I mean, there's a lot of granularity here,
and this gets a little heavy into systems administration land,
so I'm going to leave it at that,
but group policy is where as a network --- as a systems administrator rather,
you can centralize UAC behavior across your domain.
Now let me, again, open up my User menu,
I'm going to sign out, and I'm going to sign on as a domain user.
So let me go down to Other user.
I'm going to sign on.
First of all, let me make sure I have an ordinary user account created.
Let's switch back to my domain controller.
Once again, this is my Windows 26 --- Windows Server 2016 box.
I'm going to create a quick user here.
It's nice for you to see this.
I'm not going to explain every step because it's not necessary for our purposes.
I'm going to create an account called Liz.
I'm just going to set her password, and not force her to change it at next logon,
and create the account.
Now if I double left-click and navigate to the Member Of
tab she's a member of Domain Users, and the way Active Directory works,
it's really cool.
By default,
anybody in Domain Users will automatically be a part of the
Users local group on their desktop machine.
It's really cool.
I can actually show that to you.
So, once again, let's rinse and repeat.
We're going to do a logon of Liz.
I'm going to pause while this stuff happens.
You don't want to see this again.
Okay, so we're logged on as the domain user, Liz.
Now she's not an administrator, so if I come over here,
and I open Control Panel again, old school Control Panel,
I'm going to change the view to small icons,
and we'll open Windows Defender Firewall again.
You'll see most everything has the User Account Control flag,
like to turn the firewall off, for instance,
and if I click a UAC protected item we get the secure desktop,
and this time we're actually prompted to actually supply credentials,
and if Liz doesn't know those credentials she can only answer no,
but if I happen to be by I can come in and do my trainer account
that I know does have administrative permissions,
and then it will allow me to come in, okay?
And just to finish my earlier point about the
convenience of the Active Directory domain,
let me do a search for the Computer Management console again.
She should be able to open that as a standard user.
Yep, she is, and if I go to Groups here,
and come down to Users, look who belongs to the Users group automatically,
Domain Users, and I'll show you the same thing,
the built-in Administrators group in Windows Client will
automatically have the Domain Admins group.
Those happened when we joined this workstation to the company. pri domain.